# Machine Learning in Operations Research Group Assignment

Work of group number 30, Jasper Jensma, Roeland Schuiling, and Barnabas Torzsok

## The Prediction Tasks

For the assignment we needed to fit models on dataset which contains two response variables. One binrary classification and one regression. We used regularized GLM, XGBoost, and neural nets for each task. Neural nets were also used to make simultenous predictions.

## Usage

`requirements.txt` contains all necessary libraries. The files provided for the assignment as well as the their preprocessed version is stored under `documents/data/`. To ensure that models are comparablen we use the same nested cross validation splits. All functions regarding data processing are in `data_utils.py`, so that the scripts that run the models only need the `get_folds()` method. The scripts that implement our ML models can be found in the `implementations` folder. `data_exploration.ipynb` contains initial steps of data analysis we made before we decided on model architectures and preprocessing steps.

### XGBoost

There are for implementations of XGBoost models in this project two for classification and two for regression, one with early stopping and one without for both. The scripts also parallel plots for the hyperparameter tuning and save all relevant data.

### Neural Nets

In order to run the nested CV for neural net, use `run_nested_cv(target_mode, target_layers, input_folds)`, where target_mode equal to 1 results in binary classification, 2 results in regression, and 3 results in dual objective optimization and `target_layers` represents the amount of layers used (one or two). Ensure the `input_folds` is generated by `data_utils.get_folds()` using the same `target_mode`.

To run the neural net code to create predictions for the out-of-sample data run `train_NN_algorithm_and_predict(target_mode, target_layers, predict_data, input_data)`, using the same logic for `target_mode`, `target_layers`, and `input_data`. `predict_data` here is a `pandas.Dataframe` consisting of the processed feature matrix of the to be predicted data.

### Regularisation


